---
layout: post
title: Progress
categories: Projects
thumbnail: 
---

## Progress

An little third person excerpt on what I'd like to carry forward.

She remembered previous skills. As a kid she cared about the environment and liked to make hand crafts. Finding enjoyment in a repetitive or orderly craft is something that brings great happiness and focus. She got back into sewing. She decided to take a class in the past few months that started from understanding the basic functions in a sewing machine and taught her how to make her first skirt. She learned a more refined method of hand stitching, which reminded her of childhood days when she first learned how to thread a needle. She used to view the sewing machine with fear and respect, and gradually overcame this as she grew older. From hand sewing as a kid, where she learned the basic running stitch, whip stitch, blanket stitch, and back stitch, she progressed to learning how to sew a curve and elastic band while following face mask templates under her mom's guidance. Now she has completed three independent sewing projects so far, a nice pencil skirt with darts, and two basic dresses. One of the dresses has a ocean wave pattern, deep blues remniscient of the ocean's beauty. One of the dresses is a V neck. She happened to have to alter the seam allowances on this one as the first attempt turned out to be too tight, and had to make small adjustments. For the next dress, she will remember to approach the sewing pattern with more respect and attention to minute detail. Maybe even seeking one out from a store instead of depending on the instructor's.

Sewing happens to wake up her heart. It is a special craft that demands attention to the smallest details. Sometimes things break, require careful adjustment, confusion, and information seeking from the internet. Zippers are still a challenge. She loses patience when attaching them to a lining sometimes. She may be using the invisible zipper foot slightly wrong at times because she has found such immense gratification for approaching and completing a project at home ahead of schedule before lugging the sewing machine, scissors, and yards of fabric to class each week. She wonders if modern sewing machines are lighter and easier to carry. The one she's using right now is quite inconvenient and bulky, but it has been well used.

She is also now aware of the importance of getting know and maintain what is already working and existing and find good, lower risk ways to make them better able to serve their purpose. For example, investing in energy efficient and well designed architecture can have the potential to benefit humans and reduce negative impact on natural environment. She has been taking a while since the beginning of this year to slow down, work a range of shorter term jobs while learning about the different components of architectural drafting. Finding ways to apply her previous knowledge toward identifying the design requirements that need to be met, the building and zoning codes that need to be satisfied, the different components of understanding a client's demands. Using and minimally modifying the land and surroundings to suit aesthetics and function. Respecting precedent and convention, learning the standards of communication and necessary codes, creating valuable spaces that work well over time. Optimizing building systems, considering renewable energy, and considering the effect of light as is passes through a space. Architecture provides potential for doing good in many ways. She has learned from class projects that consider design software, history, regulations, calculations, and building systems. She is looking forward to slowly acquire more organized knowledge in this area. Enjoy each step of learning and not rush towards achievement, but rather respect the order that exists to provide safe and necessary residential structures.

She feels like it is ok to accept more order and stability in to her life now. To more carefully define her wants and be honest with evaluating my current memory before losing herself in pursuit of more due to fear and competitive pressure. Fear, insecurity and competition made her short sighted at some points. Now, she has learned to be grateful for the years of support her parents have given me through childhood and beyond. She has learned to forgive and forget, and recognize when to prioritize herself instead of worrying. She's grateful for the teams she has ever been a part of, the coaches that have inspired her. She's grateful for the teachers and professors she has been able to learn from and continue to learn from. She's grateful for the friends that have supported her when close by and from a distance. She's grateful for the schools and other supports she has received necessary education and guidance from.
